# Assignment 1

## List of Domains, Short Phrase, And Explanation of why I am Interested in 3 of the Domains
1. **Fanfiction**: Fanfiction is stories written by fans about media they like.
    - I love fanfiction. People think it's a relatively new thing, but people have been writing stories about other people's fiction since the dawn of time. Fanfiction has only gotten more popular with the help of websites such as *Archive of Our Own*, *Fanfiction.net*, and *Wattpad*. While all of these have their strengths, they also have key weaknesses which mean it's a great opportunity to improve upon them.
2. **Mentorship**: For when a newcomer needs to find someone to help them learn, for jobs, hobbies, etc.
3. **Theme parks**: A theme park is an area where there are games and attractions.
4. **Skincare**: Everyone's skin is very different, which makes taking care of it difficult.
5. **Digital Art**: Art done with the use of electronics, such as on a tablet or computer.
6. **Costuming**: Creating DIY Costumes can be difficult and take a lot of time.
7. **Memories**: Memories are the key moments of people's lives; arguably, memories are what make a person themselves.
    - I'm incredibly interested in memories, as I see them as snapshots of my life that are imperative to remember-- even the most mundane ones. Whenever something memorable occurs, I take the time to write it down in a note document, so that I can look back on them fondly. Photos are great ways to remember occasions, but memories and events of someone's life doesn't just convey what they look like and where they were, it also conveys their personalities.
8. **Home Ownership**: Buying, selling, and owning a house can be a monumentous occasion in people's lives.
9. **Video Game Modding**: Players can make games more fun and lengthen their shelf lives by modding them.
    - I love video games and especially love playing ones with hidden (oftentimes harder) routes. The only issue? I'm awful at them. So even if I would like to play a game as a treat, sometimes I just can't get past a level, and lose interest. For instance, I have a 25-page lore and theory document on *Deltarune* and have a blast playing the easier parts, but I also go to MIT and can't spend hours upon hours of my time trying to beat the hardest boss in the game. Thus, it would be extremely helpful if there was a *safe* way to categorize and download mods that help make the game just a little bit easier.
10. **Communal Living**: In most people's lives, they will share a room or a house with others, which can cause friction.

### The Most Promising 3 Domains and an Explanation
1. **Fanfiction**: Because fanfiction websites are relatively new and unrefined, this makes for a perfect opportunity to see what works and what could be done better. For instance, although *Archive of Our Own* (AO3) is considered the gold standard of fanfiction websites, many people complain about the steep learning curve when it comes to searching for fanfic. And although Wattpad is popular amongst the younger generation, most consider its UI to be unusable and clunky.
2. **Memories**: A way to categorize and share memories would be a perfect way to remember our loved ones. Not like a social media post, but rather key moments of their lives, their personalities, and what made them special to others. My grandmother just wrote an autobiography just so she could share key moments of her life with my family. The ideal situation would be a way for everyone to contribute to a big bank of memories, so that people who loved them, or even future generations, can remember what a person is/was like as a person.
3. **Costuming**: I love making big costumes for Halloween! But it is so difficult to create them sometime, especially because I don't yet have the time to learn to sew. If I could find key articles that would complete a costume in my local area, that would be perfect. And there are so many things costumes are used for, like Halloween, festivals, costume parties, etc.

---
## Problems For Domains
### Domains
#### Fanfiction
1. **Fanfiction is hard to find**: Although AO3 has a great selection of fanfic, finding good ones are nigh impossible, mostly because the main and only ways people find fanfic is through seeing what was added most recently, and what has the highest likes (kudos). Tags are a great help in finding fanfiction, but oftentimes people don't tag things perfectly which leads to fanfic not getting found even if it's what people are looking for. For instance, there can be a tag that says "Spoiler: found family" that will not show up if someone looks for "found family", thus people won't actually be able to find this fic, even if it's what they want. This can lead to *over-tagging* (aka "seagull fics"), where authors tag everything under the sun in their fanfic, ironically leaving readers even more frusturated upon seeing a tag they're interested in, going to the fic, then realizing the fic only contains a microscopic amount of that tag. There's an advanced search function, where people can search for key words in a summary, but this still doesn't find fics that have essentially the same meaning but not the same word. For instance, "Father-figure (character)" and "Dad (character)" mean the same thing but both wouldn't show up if you search for one and not the other. There is an OR function, so you could search both, but then you need to guess every possible variation of "Parent (character)" which is infeasible. Furthermore, there isn't really a guide on how to use the advanced search function. I had to find certain functions and operations, such as the "otp:" function, through an admin commenting about it on an obscure Reddit post, which is... not ideal.
2. **Lack of engagement (mostly of comments)**: When authors don't get feedback on their fanfiction, they feel disheartened and don't continue writing. Creating fanfiction is not a job, and they do this for the love of the game. So if that love fades due to a lack of reception, they'll simply stop.
3. **Difficulty saving memorable fanfiction**: Fanfic always is in danger of being deleted if the author no longer wishes to have it on the archive. This can cause readers distress when a beloved fic disappears and they are unable to read it.

#### Memories
1. **Sharing memories with community**: who will listen? How can you find people to share memories with?
2. **Memories fade as time goes on**: Remembering what happened as time goes on gets muddier and muddier if not thought about or recorded often.
3. **Memories are fallible**: Even if thought about often, memories are still fallible and you can't possibly get the whole truth from one person's tale. To get the most accurate version of a story, one must have multiple point of views.

#### Costuming
1. **Niche materials**: For some costumes, finding the perfect item is like finding needles in a haystack.
2. **Time required for creating a costume**: For particularly elaborate costumes, people can work on them for months and run out of time.
3. **Buying a whole outfit just to wear for a couple of occasions**: Having an entire outfit you can only wear on certain occasions is both expensive and wasteful.

### Selected Problems and Justification
1. **Fanfiction: Better Fic Finder**: A better way to find fanfiction would be good for both readers and writers. Readers can satisfy their interests without having to sift through multiple tags that convey the almost-same, but slightly diffferent meaning, and authors can get more readers without having to guess at what people will search for. It's a widespread problem enough that there are countless posts complaining about it on forums.
2. **Memories: Fading Memories**: An archive of memories would be a great way for people to share their favorite memories of people, events, etc. that could be easily implemented yet make people's lives so much better, both for people interested in the past and those who don't want to forget excellent moments of their lives. I think it would be a fun project to create, and I think it would improve the lives of a lot of people.
3. **Costuming: Limited Use Outfit**: If there was a way to only rent certain articles of clothing or be able to return them after use, that would make creating costumes much less costly and much more sustainable. If people want to dress as the same character, they could simply wait instead of buying the same article of clothing, which makes it more sustainable as well.

### Unselected Problems and Justification
1. **Fanfiction**
    1. **Lack of comments**: Having an incentive to leave comments would lead to *unintended consequences*, such as low-quality comments like "Leaving a comment so I get (incentive)", which would further drive authors off the site.
    2. **Difficulty saving memorable fanfic**: Forcing authors to never delete fanfic would *ignore key stakeholders*, as no author would want to join the site if they could never go back and edit fanfic they find embarassing, or if they accidentally doxxed themselves and couldn't remove it.
2. **Memories**
    1. **Community**: This would probably be best suited in real life, as you can find friends or family to talk about memories with face-to-face. It would be more difficult to force strangers to listen to these stories.
    2. **Fallible**: It's impossible to correct the fallibility of the mind, and even if you get multiple people's stories of the same event it still won't be the same as the simple truth. Unless you recorded every single point in everyone's life, but I don't think people would be open to that concept. It would also require multiple people to write about one memory, which would cause friction if they find it uninteresting.
3. **Costuming**
    1. **Niche materials**: Niche items of clothing can be substituted for slightly incorrect, but good enough items that work. If someone is that desperate for perfection, they can make the article of clothing themselves.
    2. **Time required for creating a costume**: The time commitment required for creating a costume can be kept on track by a reminder or calendar, and thus has *insufficient differentiation*.

---
## Stakeholders

### Fanfiction: Better Fic Finder
1. **Readers** (those searching for fanfic): Readers are impacted by the search function because they don't know if they are missing out on stories perfect for them because an author forgot to tag a trope they admire. They're also impacted by authors who tag *too much* in fear of losing audience, so they tag things (like characters) that don't matter to the story, yet still appear briefly, which bloats the tag with fluff. There's not an official way of listing someone as a main character, nor relationships. Readers who want to find fics where a certain plotline happens, but doesn't have a tag, won't be able to find them. Thus, readers are irritated when searching for fanfic.
2. **Authors** (those posting fanfic): Authors are the ones who have to tag their fics, so if they tag it incorrectly or don't know how to tag it, this can draw ire from long-term fans, who will block them. If undertagged, authors miss out on audiences. Newcomers can find the unspoken rules and already established tags confusing.
3. **Staff** (those who moderate fanfic): Volunteers often spend an inordinate amount of time "tag-wrangling", seeing if tags should appear as synonymous or subtags for other tags, such as "Werewolf Jon" being synonymous with "Werewolf John" and a subtag for "Werecreature Jon" but not synonymous with "Alternate Universe - Werewolf" because those looking for "Werewolf Jon" don't want to see Werewolves that aren't Jon, which would show up in "Alternate Universe - Werewolf". This wastes a lot of time, as you can tag literally anything you want, and still doesn't work quite perfectly.

### Memories: Fading Memories
1. **Storytellers** (those who tell stories): Storytellers are impacted by fading memories because they can no longer find joy in stories that used to make them laugh, and memories they may cherish will be lost to time.
2. **Listeners** (those who read/listen to stories): Listeners may be disappointed when the Storyteller cannot remember the memory in as much detail as they would hope. They cannot pass on stories that they don't hear/read.
3. **Characters** (those present within stories): Characters are impacted because they may eventually be forgotten by the person who tells their story. Characters might also not enjoy how they are portrayed in a memory.

### Costuming: Limited Use Outfit
1. **Sellers** (those selling clothing): Sellers may seem to make more money by limited-use costumes, but actually may lose out on money by people who don't want to spend that much money on a costume and then have it clutter up their room, and instead forgo costume-making.
2. **Costumers** (those wearing the costumes): Costumers are impacted by limited use outfits because they are both expensive and don't have a good use for anything else, so they may just be thrown away afterwards.
3. **Suppliers** (those who supply the material to be used for the costume): Suppliers are impacted because they will be using supplies that could be reused instead for a costume that won't get much use, and may eventually be thrown out.

---
## Evidence

### Fanfiction: Better Fic Finder
1. On AO3, there are 184,980 fanfictions with the tag "How Do I Tag?", indicating that they do not understand how to tag, and would thus benefit from a feature that would help teach authors to tag. [source](https://archiveofourown.org/tags/How%20Do%20I%20Tag/works)
2. [AO3 Enhancements](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/ao3-enhancements/eljennickgdbghppcaenkcinjafmnfoi?pli=1): A Chrome extension with 10,000 users used to sort for higher quality fanfictions. Does not improve on the search function, however, and still uses the tagging system.
3. [AO3 First Tag Search](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/ao3-first-tag-search/bmbpikjcekglfidkmhafdelaiimbgnpa): Another Chrome extension that tries to make the search more accurate for overtagged fanfictions, by removing fanfictions that don't have a specific pairing first. This isn't perfect, though, since this only works for relationship tags, and even then, doesn't work all of the times because people often tag other relationships before the main relationship. Furthermore, it has been removed from Chrome.
4. [What are some tags you think everyone should know? What are some tags you wish people would use more?](https://www.reddit.com/r/FanFiction/comments/zsnae5/what_are_some_tags_you_think_everyone_should_know/) reveals the fact that many authors, even ones that are seasoned fanfic writers, still don't know to tag for certain things, like (Character)-centric fics, where that character is the main character, which make searching through fanfics frusturating. One commenter in particular laments this fact, saying that they miss out on a ton of fics that have what they're looking for just because other authors overtag their work.
5. [I wish AO3 let you specify “can include” vs “does include” for tag search](https://www.reddit.com/r/FanFiction/comments/1l40rl4/i_wish_ao3_let_you_specify_can_include_vs_does/) shows that, even though fanfic readers use the site a lot, they don't actually know how to use it! There is a function that the poster is looking for embedded in AO3, but there's nowhere obvious that that is found, thus, the poster didn't even know about it.
6. [a03 (sic) and over tagging](https://www.reddit.com/r/FanFiction/comments/eo29f4/a03_and_over_tagging/) again shows that readers are frustrated at authors overtagging their fics, bloating the tags they are actually looking for.
7. [Lost Fic Tag On Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/FanFiction/?f=flair_name%3A%22Lost%20Fic%22) shows that there is an entire post tag on Reddit just for finding fics that they can no longer find. If there was an improved search bar, this wouldn't need to be a thing.
8. [Recs Wanted Tag On Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/FanFiction/?f=flair_name%3A%22Recs%20Wanted%22) shows there is an entire post tag on Reddit for people to discover fics that are too niche for them to find using AO3's current search method.
9. [Hidden Search Operators Cheatsheet](https://archiveofourown.org/admin_posts/10851): a helpful guide to searching on AO3, but unless you know to look for this post, you would never find it. This guide isn't on any of the search bar areas, and only shows up if you look through countless admin blog posts on AO3.
10. [Archive FAQ -> Tags](https://archiveofourown.org/faq/tags?language_id=en): is a FAQ on AO3 showing how often people are confused by the tagging system. Again, this is a pretty difficult post to find that isn't even complete yet. On the main FAQ section, they directly say that it is a work in progress and that not all information is available yet.
11. [How to search for fanfics?](https://www.reddit.com/r/FanFiction/comments/1n2r7ge/how_to_search_for_fanfics/) shows how users are unable to search for fics based on things like plotlines and tropes, because they are hardly ever tagged. They wonder how to search for a common trope, but because tagging is all over the place, they can't really find it. This lends credence to the fact that AO3 has a steep learning curve to tagging and searching. It also shows that people can be somewhat unfriendly to those who are new to fanfic, judging by how their confused comment and post are all disliked (downvoted).

### Memories: Fading Memories
1. [Rambling Old Man Monologue](https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/RamblingOldManMonologue) shows that people wanting to convey their memories to others is a widespread enough issue that there is an entire trope dedicated to it, based from reality.
2. [Remembered.com](https://remembered.com/#:~:text=Welcome%20to%20Remembered.com%20%2D%20Free%20Online%20Memorial%20Websites&text=Enshrine%20your%20photos%2C%20memories%2C%20and,Easy%20as%201%2C%202%203%20!) shows that although there are some websites dedicated to memories, these are mostly of deceased relatives, and not used for simply remembering good times from all times, not just deceased ones.
3. [I'm afraid of getting old and forgetting things.](https://www.reddit.com/r/simpleliving/comments/tkw1qi/im_afraid_of_getting_old_and_forgetting_things/) shows how some people are terrified at the thought of not remembering all their best moments.
4. [The Fear of Forgetting Them](https://www.coachingwithkrista.com/fear-of-forgetting-them/) shows how, after someone is deceased, oftentimes people can be afraid of forgetting what they were like.
5. [Memory Hoarding](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskOldPeople/comments/1cn5rdc/memory_hoarding/) shows that oftentimes people will keep things that remind them of good times in boxes or someplace safe. What if they could do this, but with actual stories instead online?
6. [How do I get over sentimental hoarding](https://www.reddit.com/r/ADHD/comments/14q84il/how_do_i_get_over_sentimental_hoarding/) discusses this person's issues with not wanting to get rid of physical items that remind them of a fond memory, over fear of forgetting the memory. If they had a way to remember the memory, they wouldn't have to hoard these items.
7. [RememberingALife.com](https://www.rememberingalife.com/blogs/blog/honoring-loved-ones-through-stories) shows the writer's husband, after a terminal diagnosis, did not want his memories to die with him, and recorded 60 hours worth of memories.
8. [ModernHeirloomBooks.com](https://www.modernheirloombooks.com/35-questions-to-ask-to-prompt-memories-of-lost-loved-one-tribute-book) shows that some people find collecting stories and memories of people to be therapeutic.
9. [Is there a way to find out a deceased person’s history without direct ties to their bio family?](https://www.reddit.com/r/NoStupidQuestions/comments/qznnon/is_there_a_way_to_find_out_a_deceased_persons/) shows that although people want to find out more about relatives long deceased, sometimes it can be difficult and you must be sleuthy.
10. [I'm not afraid of death. I'm afraid of losing the experiences and memories of people I loved.](https://www.reddit.com/r/depression/comments/1auzunz/im_not_afraid_of_death_im_afraid_of_losing_the/) shows how people are afraid of dying because they'd be forgetting all of their best experiences and people they loved. It would be beneficial if they knew their best memories were kept somewhere safe.

### Costuming: Limited Use Outfit
1. [Is sewing clothing and costumes actually cost effective or is it an expensive hobby?](https://www.reddit.com/r/sewing/comments/11qu9cn/is_sewing_clothing_and_costumes_actually_cost/): shows most people consider creating their own costumes incredibly expensive.
2. [Why Halloween Waste is the Scariest Monster of Them All in 2025](https://www.wastemanaged.co.uk/our-news/halloween/halloween-waste/) details how a study showed that 83% of costumes for Halloween were created with plastics which made the costume destined to end up in a landfill. Also, 7 million costumes are thrown out in the UK every Halloween and 4 out of 10 costumes are only worn once.
3. [Ask NYT Climate: How Can I Slash Halloween Waste?](https://www.beyondplastics.org/news-stories/nyt-cut-halloween-waste) recommends the reader to buy their Halloween costumes second-hand.
4. [What To Do With Old Costumes](https://thelewisfoundation.org/2019/11/old-costume/) suggests people give away their old costumes or reuse them in a way.
5. [[Discussion] What do you do with your costume after wearing it?](https://www.reddit.com/r/cosplayers/comments/3hn8lc/discussion_what_do_you_do_with_your_costume_after/) shows how many people end up putting used costumes in storage and cluttering up their space.
6. [Costume Swap](https://www.niwa.org/otaku-smash-programs) for some costumers, they swap costumes with one another after they are done with them. But what about the people who don't have a costume already?
7. [If you sew your cosplays by yourself: what do you do with them afterwards?](https://www.reddit.com/r/CosplayHelp/comments/1ky7efp/if_you_sew_your_cosplays_by_yourself_what_do_you/) shows how some costumers struggle with space after creating their costumes. Some commenters even admitted to keeping costumes they haven't reworn that are decades old, then admit that they think their next move would be to throw it away.
8. [5 Things to Do With Your Old Cosplays](https://cosplayadvice.com/what-to-do-with-your-old-cosplays/) suggest donating their costumes, selling them to other cosplayers, storing them, or throwing them away.
9. [What to do with your costumes after Halloween](https://www.wjbf.com/csra-news/what-to-do-with-your-halloween-costume-after-halloween/) suggests costumers to swap costumes with friends or family.
10. [Cosplay Costume Fabric, Materials & Supplies](https://www.parkinfabrics.co.uk/collections/cosplay/products/veg-tan-leather) shows how popular material for costumes can be expensive (32$).

---
## Features
### Fanfiction: Better Fic Finder
1. **A Better Search Algorithm**: Instead of using tags from the author, why not see what the story itself has to say? A better way would be, in addition to the search system already present, to have a search bar that you could type a blurb of the media, characters, relationship, plot, themes, tone, etc. of the story you wish to read about, and then it tries to find a fic like that based on the story contents. Readers would have an easier time finding fics they want to read, authors would be able to have a wider range of audiences that are actually interested in their story, and staff wouldn't have to spend so much time wrangling tags and putting them in boxes.
2. **If You Like Blank**: At the end of a fic, having a system that recommends other fics that are similar to the fic the reader just read would help readers find fics they already like, based on the contents/tags of the story. This would also help boost authors engagement. Furthermore, on the reader's profile, there could be suggested fics based on their favorite fics that they've saved.
3. **Suggested Tags**: When an author uploads their story and adds tags for readers to find their story, based on the story contents, there would be suggested tags for people to add, to help teach the newcomers about tags and make their work more visible. This would boost the author's engagement, and help staff not have to wrangle several variations of the same tag since it has already been marked.
4. **Main character/relationship**: In bold, at the top of the tag list, authors would put their main characters and relationships that the story is about, and they would have a limited amount of tags to use. This way, readers have an easier time discerning fics that are actually about the characters they like, rather than someone they don't really care for. Moreover, authors won't have disappointed readers complaining that their favorite character hasn't shown up yet.

### Memories: Fading Memories
1. **Profiles that List Memories**: Under each person's (character) profile, storytellers can add a memorable story that includes the character. Of course, only if the character approves of it, as to prevent bullying. This helps storytellers remember their most memorable moments and reminds characters of those fun times too! Listeners can view these stories and get a sense of what the characters involved in the story were really like, bolstering a sense of connectedness. If a memory has multiple people, you can tag those people as well. People can also respond and add details left out.
2. **Chronological Timeline**: When viewing a person's profile, you would see all the memories people added to their profile in chronological order. This helps remind the storyteller and characters when exactly these memories took place, how old they were, what stage of their life, etc. This also puts it into perspective for the listener. For isntance, the listener could see fond memories of what their parent was doing at the listener's age.
3. **Memory Prompts/Questions**: If a storyteller doesn't really know what to add, but still wants to add something to a character's board/profile, there will be prompts such as "What was their favorite color?", "What was their sense of humor like?", etc. This helps start the storyteller to think carefully about what the character was like, giving a bigger glimpse of the character's personality to the listener.

### Costuming: Limited Use Outfit
1. **Renting an Outfit**: With a feature that allows costumers to rent a costume/item, this creates less waste and a lower barrier to entry for costume creation for costumers. This also incentivizes sellers to make a product that's high quality and will last more than 1 wear, which will look better on the costumer, and incentivizes suppliers to use higher-quality material.
2. **What Others Wore**: Costumers can post their completed costume online, featuring all the items they used to create the costume, which incentivizes other costumers to reach out to the same seller to create their costume, creating more buyers for the sellers. This would be categorized by the theme or character they were trying to be, so people who want to be the same thing can look for the highest-quality costume.
3. **Reviews**: Reviews that rate costumes as high-quality or low-quality prevent scammers who want to sell shoddy material but list it as high-quality. This helps costumers get the best items for their costume. Of course, this works the other way around too. If a costumer returns the item in a state, with rips or spills on the article, the seller can rate the costumer lowly so that other sellers won't get their high-quality items destroyed by a careless costumer. Suppliers are again encouraged to use high-quality material lest the seller decide not to use their services anymore.
